


HOME FINDER TEAM REFERRAL FORM 

FOSTERING & RESIDENTIAL / OVERNIGHT SHORT BREAKS / SUPPORTED ACCOMMODATION, LODGINGS & LIVING


NOTE TO PROVIDERS – DETAILS IN THIS REFERRAL ARE STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL – PLEASE DELETE REFERRAL IMMEDIATELY IF PLACEMENT DOES NOT PROCEED

Child’s PID 
2032969

Date of Referral request
16.05.26
Referral Completed by:
Sarah Carer
Social Worker 
Name & Contact details:
Sarah Carer
fostercarername@durham.gov.uk


NOTE TO SOCIAL WORKER COMPLETING THIS FORM – ALL DETAILS IN REFERRAL MUST BE COMPLETELY ANONYMISED, NO NAMES, DATES OF BIRTHS, ADDRESSES, NAMES OF PROVIDERS ETC.  

Placement Resource Panel/High Cost Complex Cases Panel Strategic Manager Permission to search for accommodation

Yes 
By Whom?
Date 

Daniel Spencer

Unaccompanied Asylum Seekers
(direct referral – no PRP approval required)
No

Please indicate which placement type you are requesting:
In House Fostering 
x
Overnight Short Breaks

Independent Fostering
x
Supported Accommodation

In House Residential 

Supported Lodgings 

Independent Residential

Supported Living 

Mother and baby fostering 

Mother and baby unit 


Supported accommodation ONLY 
Young person’s name 
Date of birth 
Address 







INDEPENDENT / IN HOUSE FOSTERING

Type of Placement Required
Delete as applicable.  Please provide further detail to support response as required.
Placement Type - Standard, Extra or Enhanced Support (if requesting IFA) 
Standard
Is this a sibling placement?
Yes

INDEPENDENT RESIDENTIAL

Type of Placement Required
Delete as applicable.  Please provide further detail to support response as required.
Standard Residential
Yes/No
Residential with Education
Yes/No 

OVERNIGHT SHORT BREAKS
Type of placement required

Lot 22: Child / Young Person Ofsted Registered Residential Short Break
Requirement 
        (X)               
1 staff member : 2 children

1 staff member : 1 child


Placing Authority’s Requirement – frequency of short break visits


Requirement
(Insert number over a 12-month period)
Total Cost
Number of 24-hour periods 


£

SUPPORTED LIVING 

Type of Placement Required
Delete as applicable.  Please provide further detail to support response as required.
How many hours of support per day does the Young Person require?



Child / Young Person’s Details
Placement needed for (Initials Only)AgeGenderEthnicityLegal StatusLCS NoRG
3
Male
White British
CPP
2032969

PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS 

Can the Child/ren/ Young Person be placed alongside others? If no give detail 
Yes
Any specific restrictions e.g., location?
The family are from the Brandon area, so ideally foster placement not to be too close.
Any specific matching requirements e.g., no pets, age of other children in the home? 
 No

Reason for this placement request
There is a very longstanding history of involvement with mother and her children between May 2007 and the current time. The reasons for historic involvement and intervention show a continued theme of domestic abuse, alcohol and drugs misuse. 

On this occasion the Local Authority became involved on the 26th July 2024 when a housing worker attended the home address where the front door was open and when entering found mother unresponsive on the sofa and RG unsupervised in the home. 

The children have all been exposed to parental substance misuse and have seen mother presenting under the influence of substances. They will see mother sleeping on the sofa, have spoken about not being able to wake up their mam despite their efforts, will not always have their physical and emotional needs met. SKD’s father is deceased and died as a result of substances. The death of his father has had a great impact upon SKD and SKD has worried about his mam using substances and that she could also die. 

The assessment has concluded that the recommendation is that the children do not remain in mothers full time care. SKD is very upset by this and wishes to remain with his mother. He feels that things at the current time are ‘better’ than they have been and therefore struggles to understand ‘why now’. 


Date Placement to Start 
(if known)
20th May
Duration / placement term
(if known)
Unknown
Preferred Location of Placement:  
Durham Authority area

Placement History
Placement type (Residential / Fostering, Supported Living etc)
From 
To
Reason for ending























Pen Picture of Child/Young Person
Please could you describe your Child/ Young Person and include any personal skills, talents, interests, or attributes? Childs words/ voice to be reflected

RG is a 3-year-old young boy, with mousy blonde hair. When his hair grows, he has lovely curly hair but when this is cut and styled, he looks very smart. He also loves when he wears gel in his hair. RG is always smiling when we visit his home and his smile is infectious. RG loves people coming to the home and is engaging, showing them around the home, toys, items and what he is watching on the television. He loves positive praise and people taking an interest in what he is doing and what he wishes to show you. 

RG loves to watch the television and YouTube. One of his favourite programme and characters is Blippi. RG has clothing and also a duvet cover in this character which he loves to show professionals. 

RG loves to attend nursery daily, enjoying the routine and stimulation this provides. RG speech has made some great progress since September 2024. 

Education 

Current education provision – POSTCODE ONLY  

DH7 8NL – attends Mon- Fri (Afternoons)
Current Academic Year Group:
Nursery
Mainstream or Specialist:
Mainstream
EHCP: Yes / No / Undergoing assessment:
No
Brief information on current progress in education:  
RG is making good progress at nursery. His speech has hugely improved since September 2024 and he really enjoys attending nursery. 

Health 

Medication:
No
Is the child registered with a GP:
Yes
Health services currently involved e.g., CAMHS, SALT, OT etc.
None
Ongoing appointments:
None

Needs of the Child/Young Person 

Identity 
White British
Male
Family relationships / family time issues 
Mother lives in Brandon and will need to travel to Family time. 

Grandmother and Auntie live in Newton Hall. Auntie will be caring for SKD sibling JLG if plan agreed. 

Mother has experienced difficulties with substances since she was 13 years old given her own trauma and experiences. Despite the difficult decisions that are being made at this time, overall she presents well with professionals. She will need to be assessed prior to any family time taken place to make sure she is not under the influence.
Learning needs 

No
Communication / interaction / social presentation 
RG speech although has improved, is behind his expected level of development for his age. 

Given his age, RG will require an adult to ensure all of his needs are fully met. 
Emotional and mental health needs 
Robert has been seen within the home to hit and pull his elder siblings hair when he does not get his own way. He has also been seen to throw items within the room. 

RG has hit, pushed and called another child a C*NT within nursery. There appears to be a pattern when he will be settled for a week and then another week he can show unkind hands to other children. This is not a daily occurrence. It is highly likely that this behaviour will be influenced by what is going on in his home environment at the time. 

Physical or sensory needs 
RG attended a dental appointment in November 2024 where it was highlighted that a large number of his teeth will need to be removed some time in the future. In particular his top teeth. RG may need to be taken to a further dental appointment if he appears to be in any pain.  
Does the child have a disability? 
No
Dietary and health needs including allergies 
No
Cultural and religious needs 
No
Self-care skills / Preparing for Independence / travelling independently
Given his age, RG will require an adult to ensure all of his needs are fully met.
If baby – what formula milk / nappy size 
RG is currently toilet training and nursery report this is going really well during the day he is at nursery. RG still wears nappies on a nighttime for bed. 
Other 


Relationships & proposed family time
With whom
Frequency
Preferred location (if any)
Supervised 
yes or no
Mother

3 times per week
Chester Le Street
Yes
















What support do we want for our Child/ Young Person? 

RG to be supported to the dentist if this is felt as required if he shows any sign of discomfort and/or pain. 

RG to be fully supported with all areas of his needs. In particular RG needs to have a consistent routine with clear boundaries, so that he can thrive and feels secure and safe. 

Is there an agreed additional package of support in place for this Child/Young Person, if yes please provide details? 


No

What is going well for our Child/ Young Person?


RG loves to attend nursery daily and has good attendance.

RG has good relationships with his siblings and this has been observed by professionals. 
RISK ASSESSMENT    

Historical and Current Risks
Initials of Child/Young Person:
If “yes” Include details

Issue


No

Yes

How behaviour presents (include frequency / intensity)Known triggersSuccessful strategies / safety plan Last/most recent OccasionFire Setting/Arson
x






Sexually harmful behaviour
x






Offending Behaviour
x






History of violence/aggression
x



 

Destruction of Property
x






Bullying
x






Harm to animals

x





Self-harm behaviour

x





Other risk-taking behaviours

x





Solvent/drug misuse

x





Alcohol misuse

x





Absconding


x





Vulnerable to sexual exploitation

x





CAMHS involvement

x





Is Child/Young Person subject of Protection Plan?


x



RG was on a child protection plan 27.04.2021- 06.12.2021. 

Most recent Child Protection plan 23.08.2024- Present.
Requires support in school

x





History of making allegations

x





Challenging Behaviour

x





Any risk to foster carer /placement from the parent(s) 







Other









Names & Signature(s):
Please sign where appropriate
Name

Claire Blenkinsop
Position
Social Worker
Signature
C.Blenkinsop

Date completed
16.05.2025

Name

Rachel Halliday
Position
Team Manager
Signature

R.Halliday
Date completed
16.05.2025


Provider Response
Name of Provider:


Setting / Carer 
name and address:



Placement level / type:


Ofsted details:


Proposed placement start date:


Please describe how you will meet the needs of the young person:









Please indicate how you will manage risk factors outlined in the referral form:





Cost of placement:
(Please include total cost and if applicable a breakdown to include transport, additional support, discounts etc.)

For Independent Special Schools, Independent Residential & Overnight Short Break placements please use the table on the next page.

£                          per week
Signed on behalf of Provider:


Date:
Name of Signatory:
(Block Capitals)



Provider Response continued – 
INDEPENDENT RESIDENTIAL & OVERNIGHT SHORT BREAKS ONLY

B.5 Providers should detail their Placement offer in the table below
Service element
Number of hours to be delivered per week
Ratio
(Child: Staff)
Cost per hour
Total weekly cost 
Care Support Staff / Residential Care Officer (RCO) / Extracurricular Activity Staff / Personal Care / Travel Escorts




Counselling services




Health Care Assistant (HCA) / Clinical Support Worker




Interpreters – British Sign Language (BSL) (2 – 3 hours minimum at £33 per hour including travel)




Job Coaches




Learning Support Assistant (LSA) 




Mobility assistance (visual impairment)




Mobility (habilitation) assessment




Nursing Assistant 




Nursing Care 




Occupational Therapy




Occupational Therapy – assessment 




Occupational Therapy – Handwriting Assessments




Occupational Therapy – Sensory Profile




Passports




Post-16 Tutor




Physiotherapy




Psychologist assessment




Psychological Therapy




School nursing provision




Speech and Language assessment




Speech and Language Therapy




Sleep-in RCO




Specialist, Qualified Teacher (SQT)




Training costs for Child/Young Person specific needs




Travel




Waking night RCO




Totals









 
Evaluation Criteria
Experience, Knowledge, Expertise and Ability                  Weighting: 100%

Having specific regard to the referral form and supporting documents you are required to demonstrate your organisation’s experience, knowledge, expertise and ability in delivering a service that can meet the assessed need of the child/young person.
Practitioners will evaluate all response to referrals using their professional judgement.  Your response should be sufficiently detailed to allow evaluators to utilise their professional judgement when evaluating your response.

Professional judgement will take into consideration:
The assessed needs of the Child / Young Person,
Feedback on placement options by a range of individuals including the Child / Young Person and their family / Carers (where appropriate), the Child / Young Person’s Social Worker, Social Care Team Manager, Independent Reviewing Officer, Health and Education,
The extent to which a Placement meets the specific needs of the Child / Young Person, including the geographical location of the placement. 
A review of any stipulations from a Provider which may impact on care planning,
Evidence of Foster Carer experience and skills to meet the assessed needs of the Child / Young Person as demonstrated in their Carer Profile and / or Annual Carer Review, and
Price of the placement.

As well as professionals involved with the care of the Child / Young Person, the award decision will also take into consideration, as appropriate, the views of the Child / Young Person’s and the family / Carers.
Marks
Evaluation Criteria

0
No response is provided or a response is provided that is of little relevance to the assessed needs of the child/young person.

1

The response provides a limited level of information which is relevant to the assessed needs of the child/young person, and/or gives cause for a low level of confidence in the bidder’s experience, knowledge, expertise and ability in meeting the requirements 

4
The response provides an adequate level of information which is relevant to the assessed needs of the child/young person, and/or gives cause for a /or gives cause for a moderate level of confidence in the bidder’s experience, knowledge, expertise and ability in meeting the requirements.

6
The response provides a good level of information which is relevant to the assessed needs of the child/young people, and/or gives cause for a for high level of confidence in the bidder’s experience, knowledge, expertise and ability in meeting the requirements.

10
The response provides a comprehensive level of information which is relevant to the assessed needs of the child/young people, and/or gives cause for a very high level of confidence in the bidder’s experience, knowledge, expertise and ability in meeting the requirements.


Bidders will be ranked in respect of their evaluation score from highest to lowest. 













PAGE  


	 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2	     Version 1 August 2022



This document was classified as: OFFICIAL



